Case 7: Generalized Weakness

--- Case Introduction ---
Case Introduction

Day 1 @ 9:00
Office
A 30-year-old female presents to your office with complaints of generalized weakness for weeks

--- Initial Vital Signs ---
Initial Vital Signs

Day 1 @ 9:00

Temperature:

37.0 C (98.6 degrees F)

Pulse:

110 beat/min, Regular rhythm; bounding

Respiratory rate:

18 /minute

Blood pressure, systolic:

122 mm Hg

Blood pressure, diastolic:

74 mm Hg

Height:

175.3 cm (69.0 in)

Weight:

65.8 kg (145 lb)

Body Mass Index:

21.4 kg/m2

--- Initial History ---
Initial History

Reason(s) for visit: Generalized weakness
History of present Illness:
A previously healthy 30-year-old female with a PMH of asthma presents to your office complaining of progressive generalized weakness that has been occurring for the past 3 months. Her symptoms worsen at the end of the day, and her weakness improves with rest. She reports occasional blurry vision with improvement after closing and resting her eyes. She also notes difficulty chewing food and swallowing recently. She has also been experiencing dyspnea with strenuous exercise, but it is now refractory to her albuterol inhaler.

Past Medical History: She broke her arm when she was 14 which required an open reduction and pin placement. 
Current medications: Birth control, multi-vitamin
Allergies: Penicillin (rash and shortness of breath)
Vaccinations: Received Childhood vaccinations.
Women's health: She contracted gonorrhea from a sexual partner at age 20 which was successfully treated. She had a LEEP procedure done due to an abnormal pap smear 6 years ago. Her last pap smear was done 3 years ago which was normal. 
Family History: Her father has a history of congestive heart failure and is status post two myocardial infarctions. Her mother has hypothyroidism. Her grandfather died of a stroke. 

Social History:
           Marital/Family: The patient is single. She is currently living and is sexually active with her boyfriend of 2 years. 
           Personal habits: She states that she drinks occasionally. The patient smokes cigars with her boyfriend on occasion when going out.
Occupation/educational: She works as a newspaper editor for a local newspaper. 
Recreational: She enjoys reading and breeds dogs. 

Review of systems:
General: See HPI
Skin: Negative
HEENT: See HPI
Cardiorespiratory: Negative
Gastrointestinal: Negative
Genitourinary:  Negative
Neuropsychiatric: See HPI
