Case 2: Altered Mental Status
Intro screens: 3

--- Case Introduction ---

Case Introduction

Day 1 @ 11:00
Emergency Department
A 70 year old Caucasian man comes in by EMS to the emergency room due to altered mental status.

--- Initial Vital Signs ---

Initial Vital Signs

Day 1 @ 11:00

Temperature:

36.8 C (98.2 degrees F)

Pulse:

88 beats/min. Regular rhythm

Respiratory rate:

18 /minute

Blood pressure, systolic:

115 mm Hg

Blood pressure, diastolic:

85 mm Hg

Height:

180cm (70.9 in)

Weight:

91.0 kg (200.6 lb)

Body Mass Index:

27.9 kg/m2

--- Initial History ---

Initial History

Reason(s) for visit: Altered mental status
History of present Illness:
A 70-year-old Caucasian man comes to the Emergency room because his family members are concerned that something is wrong. The patient has been having behavioral changes over a period of three or four weeks. He used to be very active and managed all of his financial affairs. He now barely talks, stares at the wall for hours at a time, and sleeps most of the day. Four weeks ago, the patient got up to urinate and fell before reaching the bathroom. He was found on the floor the next morning by family members. He was taken to his family doctor and was discharged with a prescription to buy a cane. Since that time, he has been having problems walking. There have been no fevers or night sweats. The patient is currently in no pain. 

Past Medical History: Chronic alcohol abuse; cataracts.

Hospitalization Procedures: Hemorrhoidectomy 1 year ago. Last colonoscopy was 4 years ago which demonstrated no abnormalities.

Current medications: Aspirin 81mg PO daily

Allergies: None

Vaccinations: Up to date

Family History:
Father: Deceased due to a 'heart attack'.
Mother: Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus and died of natural causes. 
The patient has no siblings.

Social History: Marital/Family: Widowed; he has three children. Personal habits: the patient smokes 1 Pack/day. He currently does not drink alcohol but was a chronic alcoholic for 30 years. Denies use of illegal drugs or misuse of medications.

Occupation/educational: He is a retired Army human resources manager. He is a high school graduate.

Recreational: The patient likes to spend time with his children and enjoys collecting stamps.

Review of systems:
General: See HPI
Skin: Negative
HEENT: Negative
Cardiorespiratory: Negative
Gastrointestinal: Negative
Genitourinary: Negative
Neuropsychiatric: See HPI

--- Chart tabs ---

* Chart: Progress Notes → presentation_2_Altered_Mental_Status_chart_Progress_Notes.png
* Chart: Vital Signs → presentation_2_Altered_Mental_Status_chart_Vital_Signs.png